---
title: PWADevServer
---

A utility for configuring a development OS and a `webpack-dev-server` for PWA development.

A typical webpack local development environment uses the [`devServer`] settings in `webpack.config.js` to create a temporary, local HTTP server to show edits in real time.

## Basic Features
PWADevServer creates a `devServer` which is optimized for a Magento API-backed
PWA development workflow, including:

* **Hot reload in the browser whenever you save a change**
  * Using the [Hot Module Replacement](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/hot-module-replacement/)
  feature of Webpack, replace components and stylesheets inline
  * Refresh the whole page when a change requires it
* **Proxy API and media requests to Magento**
  * Use the `MAGENTO_BACKEND_DOMAIN` environment variable to configure a proxy
  server which accepts GraphQL and media requests to the development server, and
  passes them to Magento
  * Use the `MAGENTO_BACKEND_PUBLIC_PATH` environment variable to serve
  static resources and JS at the conventional URL where Magento would serve them
  * Transform host and referral headers to be compatible with Magento settings
* **Serve Root level ServiceWorker**
  * Serve a JS file at the root path which registers a ServiceWorker scoped to
  the whole website
  * Disable service worker when cache would interfere with realtime changes

## Optional Features
PWADevServer can also do the following during its first run, and confirm it on
on every subsequent run, depending on your configuration in `webpack.config.js`:

* **Custom hostname:**
  * Create a unique local hostname for the current project
  * Make that hostname resolve to your local machine by adding it to your system's hostfile *(requires elevated permissions, so you may be asked for a password)*
* **SSL Certificate Configuration:**
  * Create and cache a 'self-signed' SSL certificate for development work on
  the project, to enable HTTPS-only features
  * Update operating system security settings to trust the self-signed
  certificate *(requires elevated permissions, so you may be asked for a
  password)*
* **Content transformation**
  * Mask the Magento 2 domain name in all HTML attributes

## API

### `configure(options)`

#### Parameters

* `options: PWADevServerOptions` - Configuration object for the PWADevserver module

The `PWADevServerOptions` object contains the following properties:

| Property: Type                   | Description                                                                                                      |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `publicPath: string`             | **Required.** The public path to the theme assets in the backend server.                                         |
| `backendDomain: string`          | **Required.** The URL of the backend store.                                                                      |
| `paths:`[`LocalProjectLocation`] | **Required.** Describes the location of the public static assets directory and where to deploy JavaScript files. |
| `serviceWorkerFileName: string`  | **Required.** The name of the ServiceWorker file this theme creates, such as `sw.js`.                            |
| `provideSSLCert: boolean`        | *Optional*. Toggles the [create SSL certificate] feature. Set `true` to create an SSL certificate for the dev server, *and* to configure the OS and browser to trust the certificate it possible. **Requires temporary administrative access** to trust the certificate.
| `provideUniqueHost: string|boolean` | *Optional*. Toggles the [create custom hostname] feature. Set `true` to create a unique hostname (made from the theme name and a hash of the project working directory). Or, set as a custom string, e.g. `"my-special-pwa"`, to override the default behavior of detecting the theme name from `package.json`. **Requires temporary administrative access** to add custom domain to the OS hostfile.
| `id: string`                     | *Optional*. Toggles and customizes the [create custom hostname] feature. Create a custom hostname exactly from the ID string, without attempting to hash the directory to ensure uniqueness. This option implies `provideUniqueHost`, but overrides the autogenerated subdomain.
| `changeOrigin: boolean`          | *Experimental.* Toggles the [change origins in HTML] feature. Defaults to `false`.                                      |
{:style="table-layout:auto"}

**Return:**

A [Promise] configuration type for webpack.

{: .bs-callout .bs-callout-info}
**Note:**
`PWADevServer.configure()` is asynchronous.


## Example

In `webpack.config.js`:

``` js
const path = require('path');
const buildpack = require('@magento/pwa-buildpack');
const PWADevServer = buildpack.Webpack.PWADevServer;

module.exports = async env => {
    const config {
        /* webpack entry, output, rules, etc */

        devServer: await PWADevServer.configure({
            publicPath: '/pub/static/frontend/Vendor/theme/en_US/',
            backendDomain: 'https://magento2.localdomain',
            serviceWorkerFileName: 'sw.js',
            paths: {
                output: path.resolve(__dirname, 'web/js'),
                assets: path.resolve(__dirname, 'web')
            },
            provideUniqueHost: 'magento-venia',
            provideSSLCert: true
        })
    };

    config.output.publicPath = config.devServer.publicPath;

    return config;
}
```

{: .bs-callout .bs-callout-info}
**Note:**
The example provided uses the newer, cleaner `async/await` syntax instead of using Promises directly.

{: .bs-callout .bs-callout-info}
**Note:**
The emitted `devServer` object may have a custom `publicPath`.
To get the best performance from the ServiceWorker, set `config.output.publicpath` to the `publicPath` value once the `devServer` is created but before creating a ServiceWorker plugin.

## Creating an SSL Certificate

PWA features like ServiceWorkers and Push Notifications are only available on
HTTPS secure domains (though some browsers make exceptions for the domain
`localhost`. HTTPS development is becoming the norm, but creating a
self-signed certificate and configuring your server and browser for it can
still be a complex process. The `PWADevServerOptions.provideSSLCert`
configuration flag tells PWADevServer to look for a cached SSL certificate,
or create one for the dev server to use.

It also attempts to use OS-level security settings to "trust" this certificate,
so you don't have to manually override when the browser tells you the
certificate authority is unknown. Browsers will soon start requiring trust as
well as SSL itself to enable some features.

**PWADevServer uses OpenSSL to generate these certificates; your operating
system must have an `openssl` command of version 1.0 or above to use this
feature.**

This feature also requires administrative access, so it may prompt you for
an administrative password at the command line. It does not permanently
elevate permissions for the dev process; instead, it launches a privileged
subprocess to execute one command.

## Creating a custom hostname

PWA features like ServiceWorkers use the concept of a 'scope' to separate
installed ServiceWorkers from each other. A scope is a combination of a domain
name, port, and path. If you use `localhost` for development multiple PWAs,
you run the risk of their Service Workers overriding or colliding with each
other.

One solution to this is to create a custom local hostname for each project.
The `PWADevServerOptions.provideUniqueHost` and `PWADevServerOptions.id`
configuration flags tell PWADevServer to create and route a hostname on first
run, and verify it on subsequent runs.

Set `provideUniqueHost: true` for the simplest configuration. This option
detects the project name by looking up the `name` property in `package.json`,
and combines it with a short hash string derived from the project directory.
This ensures a consistent domain while working in the same directory, and also
automatically different URLs for projects at different paths. For example, the
`name` field in Venia is `theme-frontend-venia`, so an autogenerated unique
host might look like `https://theme-frontend-venia-a6g2k.local.pwadev`.

Set `provideUniqueHost` to a string value to partly customize this behavior.
This option uses the provided string instead of looking up the project name in
`package.json`. For example, `provideUniqueHost: "kookaburra"` might produce a
hostname like `https://kookaburra-na87h.local.pwadev`.

Set `id` to a string value to create a custom domain name, but override both the
automated name lookup and the hashing behavior to ensure uniqueness.
For example, `id: "my-special-pwa"` would produce the hostname
`https://my-special-pwa.local.pwadev`, whereas
`provideUniqueHost: "my-special-pwa"` might produce the hostname
`https://my-special-pwa-c712jb.local.pwadev`. *To ensure no collision of Service
Workers, the `provideUniqueHost` option is recommended.*

## Change Origins In HTML URLs

The `PWADevServerOptions.changeOrigin` property toggles an experimental feature
that tries to parse HTML responses from the proxied Magento backend and replaces
its domain name with the dev server domain name.

[create SSL certificate]: #creating-an-ssl-certificate
[create custom hostname]: #creating-a-custom-hostname
[change origins in HTML]: #change-origins-in-html-urls
[`devServer`]: https://webpack.js.org/configuration/dev-server/
[Promise]: https://webpack.js.org/configuration/configuration-types/#exporting-a-promise
[`LocalProjectLocation`]: {{ site.baseurl }}{%link pwa-buildpack/reference/object-types/index.md %}#localprojectlocation
